Font Family
The font family of a text is set with the font-family property.

The font-family property should hold several font names as a "fallback" system. If the browser does not support the first font, it tries the next font, and so on.

Start with the font you want, and end with a generic family, to let the browser pick a similar font in the generic family, if no other fonts are available.

Note: If the name of a font family is more than one word, it must be in quotation marks, like: "Times New Roman".

More than one font family is specified in a comma-separated list:

Example
p {
  font-family: "Times New Roman", Times, serif;
}
For commonly used font combinations, look at our Web Safe Font Combinations.


Font Style
The font-style property is mostly used to specify italic text.

This property has three values:

normal - The text is shown normally
italic - The text is shown in italics
oblique - The text is "leaning" (oblique is very similar to italic, but less supported)
Example
p.normal {
  font-style: normal;
}

p.italic {
  font-style: italic;
}

p.oblique {
  font-style: oblique;
}
Font Size
The font-size property sets the size of the text.

Being able to manage the text size is important in web design. However, you should not use font size adjustments to make paragraphs look like headings, or headings look like paragraphs.

Always use the proper HTML tags, like <h1> - <h6> for headings and <p> for paragraphs.

The font-size value can be an absolute, or relative size.

Absolute size:

Sets the text to a specified size
Does not allow a user to change the text size in all browsers (bad for accessibility reasons)
Absolute size is useful when the physical size of the output is known
Relative size:

Sets the size relative to surrounding elements
Allows a user to change the text size in browsers
Note: If you do not specify a font size, the default size for normal text, like paragraphs, is 16px (16px=1em).

Set Font Size With Pixels
Setting the text size with pixels gives you full control over the text size:

Example
h1 {
  font-size: 40px;
}

h2 {
  font-size: 30px;
}

p {
  font-size: 14px;
}
Tip: If you use pixels, you can still use the zoom tool to resize the entire page.

Set Font Size With Em
To allow users to resize the text (in the browser menu), many developers use em instead of pixels.

The em size unit is recommended by the W3C.

1em is equal to the current font size. The default text size in browsers is 16px. So, the default size of 1em is 16px.

The size can be calculated from pixels to em using this formula: pixels/16=em